=head1 NAME

HTTP::Tiny - A small, simple, correct HTTP/1.1 client

=head1 VERSION

version 0.015

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use HTTP::Tiny;

    my $response = HTTP::Tiny->new->get('http://example.com/');

    die "Failed!\n" unless $response->{success};

    print "$response->{status} $response->{reason}\n";

    while (my ($k, $v) = each %{$response->{headers}}) {
        for (ref $v eq 'ARRAY' ? @$v : $v) {
            print "$k: $_\n";
        }
    }

    print $response->{content} if length $response->{content};

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is a very simple HTTP/1.1 client, designed for doing simple GET
requests without the overhead of a large framework like L<LWP::UserAgent>.

It is more correct and more complete than L<HTTP::Lite>.  It supports
proxies (currently only non-authenticating ones) and redirection.  It
also correctly resumes after EINTR.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 new

    $http = HTTP::Tiny->new( %attributes );

This constructor returns a new HTTP::Tiny object.  Valid attributes include:

=over 4

=item *

agent

A user-agent string (defaults to 'HTTP::Tiny/$VERSION')

=item *

default_headers

A hashref of default headers to apply to requests

=item *

max_redirect

Maximum number of redirects allowed (defaults to 5)

=item *

max_size

Maximum response size (only when not using a data callback).  If defined,
responses larger than this will die with an error message

=item *

proxy

URL of a proxy server to use (default is C<$ENV{http_proxy}> if set)

=item *

timeout

Request timeout in seconds (default is 60)

=back

=head2 get|head|put|post|delete

    $response = $http->get($url);
    $response = $http->get($url, \%options);
    $response = $http->head($url);

These methods are shorthand for calling C<request()> for the given method.  The
URL must have unsafe characters escaped and international domain names encoded.
See C<request()> for valid options and a description of the response.

=head2 post_form

    $response = $http->post_form($url, $form_data);
    $response = $http->post_form($url, $form_data, \%options);

This method executes a C<POST> request and sends the key/value pairs from a
form data hash or array reference to the given URL with a C<content-type> of
C<application/x-www-form-urlencoded>.  See documentation for the
C<www_form_urlencode> method for details on the encoding.

The URL must have unsafe characters escaped and international domain names
encoded.  See C<request()> for valid options and a description of the response.
Any C<content-type> header or content in the options hashref will be ignored.

=head2 mirror

    $response = $http->mirror($url, $file, \%options)
    if ( $response->{success} ) {
        print "$file is up to date\n";
    }

Executes a C<GET> request for the URL and saves the response body to the file
name provided.  The URL must have unsafe characters escaped and international
domain names encoded.  If the file already exists, the request will includes an
C<If-Modified-Since> header with the modification timestamp of the file.  You
may specificy a different C<If-Modified-Since> header yourself in the C<<
$options->{headers} >> hash.

The C<success> field of the response will be true if the status code is 2XX
or 304 (unmodified).

If the file was modified and the server response includes a properly
formatted C<Last-Modified> header, the file modification time will
be updated accordingly.

=head2 request

    $response = $http->request($method, $url);
    $response = $http->request($method, $url, \%options);

Executes an HTTP request of the given method type ('GET', 'HEAD', 'POST',
'PUT', etc.) on the given URL.  The URL must have unsafe characters escaped and
international domain names encoded.  A hashref of options may be appended to
modify the request.

Valid options are:

=over 4

=item *

headers

A hashref containing headers to include with the request.  If the value for
a header is an array reference, the header will be output multiple times with
each value in the array.  These headers over-write any default headers.

=item *

content

A scalar to include as the body of the request OR a code reference
that will be called iteratively to produce the body of the response

=item *

trailer_callback

A code reference that will be called if it exists to provide a hashref
of trailing headers (only used with chunked transfer-encoding)

=item *

data_callback

A code reference that will be called for each chunks of the response
body received.

=back

If the C<content> option is a code reference, it will be called iteratively
to provide the content body of the request.  It should return the empty
string or undef when the iterator is exhausted.

If the C<data_callback> option is provided, it will be called iteratively until
the entire response body is received.  The first argument will be a string
containing a chunk of the response body, the second argument will be the
in-progress response hash reference, as described below.  (This allows
customizing the action of the callback based on the C<status> or C<headers>
received prior to the content body.)

The C<request> method returns a hashref containing the response.  The hashref
will have the following keys:

=over 4

=item *

success

Boolean indicating whether the operation returned a 2XX status code

=item *

status

The HTTP status code of the response

=item *

reason

The response phrase returned by the server

=item *

content

The body of the response.  If the response does not have any content
or if a data callback is provided to consume the response body,
this will be the empty string

=item *

headers

A hashref of header fields.  All header field names will be normalized
to be lower case. If a header is repeated, the value will be an arrayref;
it will otherwise be a scalar string containing the value

=back

On an exception during the execution of the request, the C<status> field will
contain 599, and the C<content> field will contain the text of the exception.

=head2 www_form_urlencode

    $params = $http->www_form_urlencode( $data );
    $response = $http->get("http://example.com/query?$params");

This method converts the key/value pairs from a data hash or array reference
into a C<x-www-form-urlencoded> string.  The keys and values from the data
reference will be UTF-8 encoded and escaped per RFC 3986.  If a value is an
array reference, the key will be repeated with each of the values of the array
reference.  The key/value pairs in the resulting string will be sorted by key
and value.

=for Pod::Coverage agent
default_headers
max_redirect
max_size
proxy
timeout

=head1 LIMITATIONS

HTTP::Tiny is I<conditionally compliant> with the
L<HTTP/1.1 specification|http://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616.html>.
It attempts to meet all "MUST" requirements of the specification, but does not
implement all "SHOULD" requirements.

Some particular limitations of note include:

=over

=item *

HTTP::Tiny focuses on correct transport.  Users are responsible for ensuring
that user-defined headers and content are compliant with the HTTP/1.1
specification.

=item *

Users must ensure that URLs are properly escaped for unsafe characters and that
international domain names are properly encoded to ASCII. See L<URI::Escape>,
L<URI::_punycode> and L<Net::IDN::Encode>.

=item *

Redirection is very strict against the specification.  Redirection is only
automatic for response codes 301, 302 and 307 if the request method is 'GET' or
'HEAD'.  Response code 303 is always converted into a 'GET' redirection, as
mandated by the specification.  There is no automatic support for status 305
("Use proxy") redirections.

=item *

Persistent connections are not supported.  The C<Connection> header will
always be set to C<close>.

=item *

Direct C<https> connections are supported only if L<IO::Socket::SSL> is
installed.  There is no support for C<https> connections via proxy.
Any SSL certificate that matches the host is accepted -- SSL certificates
are not verified against certificate authorities.

=item *

Cookies are not directly supported.  Users that set a C<Cookie> header
should also set C<max_redirect> to zero to ensure cookies are not
inappropriately re-transmitted.

=item *

Only the C<http_proxy> environment variable is supported in the format
C<http://HOST:PORT/>.  If a C<proxy> argument is passed to C<new> (including
undef), then the C<http_proxy> environment variable is ignored.

=item *

There is no provision for delaying a request body using an C<Expect> header.
Unexpected C<1XX> responses are silently ignored as per the specification.

=item *

Only 'chunked' C<Transfer-Encoding> is supported.

=item *

There is no support for a Request-URI of '*' for the 'OPTIONS' request.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item *

L<LWP::UserAgent>

=back

=for :stopwords cpan testmatrix url annocpan anno bugtracker rt cpants kwalitee diff irc mailto metadata placeholders

=head1 SUPPORT

=head2 Bugs / Feature Requests

Please report any bugs or feature requests by email to C<bug-http-tiny at rt.cpan.org>, or through
the web interface at L<http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=HTTP-Tiny>. You will be automatically notified of any
progress on the request by the system.

=head2 Source Code

This is open source software.  The code repository is available for
public review and contribution under the terms of the license.

L<https://github.com/dagolden/p5-http-tiny>

  git clone https://github.com/dagolden/p5-http-tiny.git

=head1 AUTHORS

=over 4

=item *

Christian Hansen <chansen@cpan.org>

=item *

David Golden <dagolden@cpan.org>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2011 by Christian Hansen.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

